.\" 
.\" Manual page for qmidiroute
.\" Process with:
.\"   groff -man -Tascii qmidiroute.1 | less
.\"
.\" Get a printable version with:
.\"   groff -t -e -mandoc -Tps qmidiroute.1 > qmidiroute.ps
.\"
.TH QMIDIROUTE 1 2009-09-13
.SH NAME
qmidiroute \- MIDI event processor and router

.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.B qmidiroute 
[\fIOPTION\fR] [\fIfile\fR]
.br 
.B qmidiroute 
{
.B \-\-help 
| 
.B \-\-version
}

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B qmidiroute
is a versatile MIDI event processor and router for the ALSA sequencer.
The graphical interface is based on the Qt4 toolkit.
.B qmidiroute
permits setting up an unlimited number of MIDI maps in which incoming 
events are selected, modified or even changed in type before being 
directed to a dedicated ALSA output port. The maps work in parallel,
and they are organized in tabs. With 
.B qmidiroute
it is for example possible to change or invert the scale of a keyboard, 
to transform keyboard strokes into program changes or controller data 
into notes.

Incoming MIDI events can be logged in a list and are displayed
in different colors according to their MIDI type.
.B qmidiroute
provides one ALSA input port and as default two ALSA output ports. The
numerical ALSA client id is displayed as part of the window title.
.SS "General Usage"
After starting the application, the 
.I Unmatched
tab is presented (see below). To start MIDI routing setup, the 
.I New map...
button can be clicked, which will create a new MIDI map appearing as 
a tab in the map area. The entire setup can be saved to and 
loaded from a QMidiRoute file (.qmr). Several maps can be created to 
work in parallel. The maps can be organized using the 
.I Map Rename, Remove 
and 
.I Clone 
buttons. The 
.I Event Log 
is displayed in the bottom area by default, but can be hidden if not
needed or floated as a top-level window on the desktop. Logging 
can also be disabled generally or for MIDI Clock events only. 
.SS "MIDI Input"
The 
.I Input
field represents the incoming event filter of each map. 
Handled event types are 
.I Note, Controller, Pitchbend
and 
.I Program Change. 
The events can be filtered by their respective values or by MIDI 
channel. Events matching the conditions specified in the 
.I Input
field are directed to the 
.I Output 
field.
.SS "MIDI Output"
The 
.I Output
field sets terms into which event type the matching
events are transformed, how their channel and values are transformed, 
and to which ALSA port they are directed. 
.I Channels
and 
.I Values
can be set 
.I Fixed, Offset 
or 
.I Reverse Offset
with respect to the input event. As an example, 
.I Reverse Offset
will take the value specified and 
subtract the incoming event value from it to produce the output event
value. If the output range for a value is different from its input 
counterpart, the input range will be smoothly scaled to the output 
range. Events will be sent to the ALSA port specified. The number of 
available ALSA ports can be set using the corresponding command-line
.B option.
.SS "Unmatched MIDI events"
In the 
.I Unmatched
tab, the handling of events not matching any input filter of the 
defined maps is specified. These events can be discarded or sent to a 
specified ALSA port.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-portCount\  <num>
Set the number of available ALSA output ports to <num>. The default
is 2.
.TP
.BI \-\-help
Print possible command-line options and exit.
.TP
.BI \-\-version
Print version information and exit.
.TP
.B file
Name of a valid QMidiRoute (.qmr) file to be loaded on start.
.SH FILES
.I *.qmr
.RS
QMidiRoute files containing MIDI routing data in plain text format.
.SH EXAMPLES
An example MIDI map file can be found in 
.I /usr/share/qmidiroute 
or in
.I /usr/local/share/qmidiroute
.SH NOTES
Errors and warnings are written to 
.BR stderr (3).
.SH SUPPORT
alsamodular-devel@lists.sourceforge.net
.SH AUTHORS
Matthias Nagorni, Frank Kober and Guido Scholz. This
manual page was written by
Frank Kober <emuse@users.sourceforge.net>.
